Neural Lace Podcast 3 (Auto transcript needs fixing)

Apr 22, 2017

Original Audio here https://youtu.be/_yKjtTVoVlU


00:19
So, welcome to the narrow lace podcast, episode three with Eric Mosner master happy to be here. Have a happy day having a podcast here. So, air presently game talk on neurogenesis, which is fascinating and I opening. And while I was given this hawk, we had peak in his computer and he had countless documents.
00:44
That countless would say he's, he's studies the brain. It's pretty obvious account was research documents into how to enter Genesis works. I mean, just the unbelievable amount of files. I've never seen that many. I was just my desktop, I think, because so this band stays raining when he started to bring your neuroscientist.
01:07
So when think I found out that I would have the chance to talk to him for the podcast I jumped in because that's what he does To be clear. I'm not a classically trained neuroscientist but I definitely think it's been more time researching the brain than most sort of like, right.
01:26
Scientists and doctors. I pretty much am, you know, through my business of learning in tropics company neutral, I am basically a paid researcher all day long on, enhancing the human brain, and memory, and learning. And the growth of justice is for those who don't know, and that's something that I try to find a practical application.
01:50
For instead of just doing research, I live the research, Eric Master is the CEO of a new office company and we so we're finding out what is new tropics and and what, how do you tropics interface with their lace? So that's before using neuroplasticity changes and neurogenesis changes. And since neutrophils facilitate, neuroplasticity, the change between connections and neurons, it might facilitate the integration of these devices, I've actually was in discussion with a couple doctors one, who's doing some biofeedback things.
02:25
And another wise and mentioned to him how these things, you know, nutropix might offer a way for the body to easily integrate with these devices that are, people are trying to learn and use stimulation and muscle stimulation through through their devices, you've got like atoms and biofeedback devices, and a couple other people.
02:46
I've been interested in in getting into with but there's honestly not a lot of research in combining new tropics with these activities or is definitely some research on nutropix. Plus brain training has a better effect than either alone now, so as a researcher, how far have you dived into like the metabolism of neurons included and how that functions.
03:07
So I mean, I'm interested in you know, my the mitochondria a lot which are making the energy in the brain ATP. The ATP correct. So increased brain activity does use increased mitochondrial activity. Absolutely. So that we talked about brain nutrition, is kind of a thing that might be required is to increase your brains supply of the precursors that are allowing for energy building.
03:31
You also want to have the phospholipids out there which are going to help build new cells, including DHA, likes and fish oil, because the brain might hit a physical limitation on trying to like interact with these machinery and they may be augmented by these substances. And I've been looking into, I've been done enough, research on them, but I'm starting to look at cochlear implants, another type of implants and see what you can do to make more rapidly integrate those in the brain, because I think they'll be something analogous for when we're looking at an early laces.
04:01
So, I spoke to David Eagleman on November 19th. And I was so it was out of an event and I just he was talking and I actually don't know if he was talking there, but he I asked him about my hypothesis about how we can send VR directly to the brain.
04:26
But I was careful about how I phrase that I said you know if we stick all these new sensors in the brain, one thing have it the other senses similar to how they. Well so my idea was it won't a new sensor input regulate. The intention game of the brain and have it other senses.
04:50
And I don't think at that time, he's on the same page with me about what would happen, because he talks a lot about, you know, adding new sensors, to the brain. So a kind of reverse example that I can film is that. And if you put on a bike for 90 minutes in total, 100% darkness visual cortex assumes that you no longer have eyes, and you may start to have like audio hallucinations, if you're listening to music or podcasts and your visual cortex may begin the process where your ears are hearing.
05:27
So what I'm talking about then within release. So that when you reverse that process, if you take the or even whether it's no laser, whether it's just, you know, adding in 10 extra eyeballs, that was a question. I personally add in text eyeballs basically doing the reverse of wearing a blindfold.
05:47
And so when you take the blindfold off your brain, you're now adding a new sensor inputs. And these two sensory inputs and hibit auditory targeted, auditory processing back to the same levels. They were at before you put the blind people on. So, if you gave yourself 10% of your eyes, it's going to inhibit some other part of your brain function that operates for your other senses.
06:11
That's my hypothesis at the time. I didn't get the chance to get all of that out because, you know, we're gonna an event but I hope to convince them hope to talk again, about that topic. And yeah. So that's, that's what I was talking about with David England. Yeah, I talked to Eagleman as well.
06:34
He was one of the people that actually spoke with him after he was interviewing about him daily and you know he didn't actually I wrote him an email and I sent him all these papers and you know about Mossy's fiber, we organization like and things like that increases in like you know, the waves in the brain that are caused by nature was I think it response for him, but I think that he he probably doesn't necessarily know the answer, but I think that any extra usage of the brain, including 10, you know, eight more eyes, or ten more eyes, would cause an increase in energy in the brain.
07:07
Fortunately, the brain is like really efficient. But you know, weighing only two percent of our body weight, it uses 20% of our energy and there is actually limitations evolutionarily on that energy usage, because used to much energy before you can get your next meal, you would die. And so, I think part of what intropics do is they allow us to, for example, like use more than neurotransmitter choline beyond what would be a normally.
07:31
Okay, level. And so, some people, if you don't supplement with cetaculine or another precursor for us, you don't need to get a headache or you can have other issues. So in my pills are like put that in there, but I definitely think that shows the demand is increased and you know also I know about neurot your precursor signaling or if you have those precursors in there your body will naturally amp up the production of those downstream neurotransmitters.
07:57
So I so you were just before the talk today, you're showing me this this one researchers. He has this injectable was the injectable pro and it's like, it's like a it just, it's a sensor that you inject, and then it sends a signal outside the brain. It looks like they're going through the brain through blood vessels through everything.
08:21
Through vein, to basically, try to get in the brain without causing physical damage. And these are nanomachines, and they're planning to check rats with them. I think they got them into some rats. I think we're looking at two different things. One was a guy I believe is an Australian researcher.
08:35
Who has that probe and in the looking at a paper called, synthetic injectables synthetics, something like that which looks to be pretty amazing. If we can get that technology into to rats for to human brains and, you know, in the rap brain, I think, you know, the brain is difficult in general to go into because once you're in there, there's a lot of troubling, you can cause very easily.
09:01
And I think that that was part of the issue with that guy with the probe is that they're going through the blood, the vessel. So they're not going to the brain and want to like, pop out inside the brain and kind of like uses a source system in a back.
09:15
A back level in there. I've seen some other promising technologies. One of them was a friend. Who says this company was working on. I don't know if it's a new year or not, but basically they injection your shoulder and your collarbone basically and you're your neck and then they grow neurons up.
09:32
You're they try to build a link from that device that sits outside the brain and build a neural pathway up, your neck, and back into your brain. So that one's kind of like an interesting one to me because it recognizes that they can't go directly in the brain as easily and they found a way to do it outside and then hook into the brains network.
09:49
Question, I have is what happens once you program into the brain. What kind of information are you gonna be getting? What kind of signal you're gonna transduce? We're gonna be able to just come up with a yes or no. The device has and gonna be that's enough of a signal are gonna be able to like wire into some other processing that that there's there's a lot of questions sensors and new ones that I'm learning about every day.
10:12
A lot of companies have just announcing a sensors. So, a couple years ago, I saw sensor in the basically it's not only a sensor. It's also transmitter and so it's sensitive, electromagnetic, waves and transmit them. There's a number of companies are building like artificial neurons one, you know, in terms of like neutrons and energy demands everything on the brain.
10:31
It ultimately an artificial neuron to really behave like a realm would be able to, to, you know, supply, the brain with energy in terms of like, you know, local in terms of being the proper interface between the brain, and not just like feed offline or interface like a normal.
10:52
So that means we need to have the same similar structure and it would, it lead to at least neurotransmitter chemicals. So, if you're making a heart machine, you're using not to keep resupplying those neurotransmitters, or have some way that it can work, what's called endogenous and produced. So, either need where they could try to do is potentially tap into the body system for restoring these neurotransmitters already.
11:15
And put those in. The question is, could it generate its own new neurotransmitters things called neuropeptides, which are short chains of amino acids? There can signal as if a neurotransmitter in my gold pills, new pet, there's something called new pet, which is a Russian diet peptide form of paracetamol per acetamin.
11:35
Original pick a diet peptide, for being the short-term amino acids as a much easier, way of crossing the blood brain barrier in the stomach and in other ways to the body. And it's but it's considered a neurotransmitter in that way and there are also hundreds of neurotransmitters. We don't even know all of them and we live in.
11:53
No. Even the limited on how many there are, but realistically, we talk about less than 10, you know, people know about like, serotonin dopamine, acidophilian, you know, epinephrine and I don't know whether people know about, but that's what I mentioned that there are biohackers working on creating artificial cells from DNA.
12:12
So hopefully that means eventually, you know, and it's a still like this hasn't happened yet. It's a sort of like, a one of those holy grail moments. So can we create an artificial stuff? I mean there is somebody who has made, they made an artificial life form that has its own type of programming whether that is relevant in the brain.
12:34
I don't know. I think we've be much more evil to like I think like looking at like TCS and like sending electrical ways. Yes, looking stuff like that where you're like physically stimulating the pathways or they have, you know, where they was oxygenetics, where they put in a light, sensitive gene from a jellyfish that we're gonna put light on it directly, actually on the brain that we're required on a bridge engineering human brain cells.
13:06
Yes, it would involve it wouldn't involve modifying the brains DNA and those they're doing. Yeah. So I I thought well transcending magnetic stimulation, seems like it reaches deep into the brain from remote. The big problem with that alert is it, it's it's actually like trying to interface with a brain with a shotgun.
13:26
It's like two big but they're currently working on reducing it to. So it's less like a shotgun and more like a surgical knife. Yes, they have some that are implants in the brain for people with strokes and other types of ailments that will you know, try to stabilize a brain or fire, you know.
13:41
We're starting to get pacemakers built into the body that automatically, like, gives your heart a shock, if it's needed. So I think that there's things that are making progress. But again, yeah, they are definitely shotgun type of approaches. The brain is just difficult to experiment in human brains. Like even cracking opening human brain is not something you do lightly, right?
13:59
So I think we really need to figure out methods to do this in animals, and that means from whatever's forgotten animals. Immense is 10 to 20 years? Yeah, at the current cycle, hopefully things speed up. Hopefully it gets him. Well, okay, so, but so I what I, what I'm advocating is that we use some new wireless technologies that I know about are coming to the market and there's a lot of different ways we can go about solving earlies but we should use wireless for example.
14:25
Let's say, let's take the topic of track target, which is usually assertion with MRI and diffusion tensor imaging to traditional courses of track photography. Is that you, you do, basically it MRI scan for multiple angles, at least three different angles and then you, then you combine the different. You like you have an X capture and why X capture and as you capture and you combine the different angles, the computer figures out the geometry of all the it's receiving the image capture from from different angles and is creating an image and three dimensions.
14:59
That's a great. If you want to control your computer, while sitting inside this giant MRI machine in the hospital, this is get around. So let them know. Secret is well, is that track? Tography is not is is sport, is tensor, calculus it doesn't, it's not limited to the domain of joining magnetic machine or MRI.
15:20
Well, that's good. So, if we can stick multiple sensors in or near, let's say that, let's say that we talked about, you know, we could, we could do track target with other kinds of sensors, just the point I'm making, okay? And that means that you're taking multiple snapshots from different angles with a brain, and then you're using a computer program to stitch together those images and to create a three model of that space.
15:48
Even with, you know, the limits of what you can do with MRI though are not really recently. MRI, you know, you're getting like the boxel size could contain, you know, like a thousand miles for example, or many more than that. And that's not the definition. We're going to need for neuroase, but if you're taking 3,000 images from multiple angles, right, and you're doing photography with them, massive, not images.
16:13
And then you're thinking about something to reality, which is called. People have made a try. There's, it's called photography where you can. There's an app on the vibe called realities, that I know where you can walk inside a virtual room that looks, it's photorealistic and you'll lean around. When I was a CS 2017.
16:32
I tried this new technology by VR higher introduced. The ability to walk around inside a video. So, you're moving inside a video and at the X tech expo recently. So, the PlayStation VR cheat doctor, Richard marks showed me a demo of the new Sony technology being developed in the UK, which allows six degrees of freedom position.
17:02
Tracking at the from a regular 3d 360 video and actually, faceobok, just unveiled, some new cameras that at F8 that actually make allow. Basically, they're not going to sell the cameras directly but it's a hardware spec that allows you to have, you know, either an X24 or 24 cameras or six cameras.
17:34
In one device allows people less professionals to capture video with six degrees of freedom. With both techniques though, you obviously would have some occlusion on depending on how far away you move attempt to move from the origin, point of the camera. So these are primarily aimed at professionals to record like concerts and movies plays live shows.
18:04
And then the concert itself the concert hall or the producer of the of the film or the of the show would, then act do a lot of post-production to fix it. So that is the technology coming down the pipeline that allows us to do, basically videogrammetry to move around inside the videos and real time.
18:27
So, the next step, then of course, is to take the basic the core of that video. Grammation process, which is photography and appliance medical imaging like a massive that language camera was amazing. It's massive and it's super expensive and it creates like, you know, that's light field is amazing but it's it's also a firehouse data so high.
18:54
VR has got this advantage where they've they're using actually just no local depression but they're bringing down the size of the data for something. You can you can download on and washing your office which is a huge step or you got to actually got a compress it you got to make it shippable but now Sony in the UK has come up with a technology where you could take us standard 3d 360 bridge which is so much less expensive and you can make a, you can make a movie that you have the system tracking.
19:21
I was in this concert hall and I noticed that the reflections just like a little too good. I can be around corners and parallax is too good. And this is because you know when you do photogrammetry from a fixed point of view, you can't see what's around the chair.
19:37
So the solution this is going to be an enterprise solution. It's not immediately like available to, you know, this was for people who make it's gonna be for people who make concerts to actually need to get through this. Yeah, sorry, yeah. So but what are they gonna do the technology related to neural laces?
19:56
Okay, so so the point being this technology is coming down the pipeline so fast, what you can do with it though is you're turning four dimensional video and the computer's figure out the geometry four dimensional video from all these different angles and is creating like so this is the technology that we can now, apply to medical imaging.
20:21
So instead of like focusing on the outside world, we turn this around and focus it on the inside of the world with. So we take three thousand, you know, images of the brain with track topography from different, and we're combining it with not photography video grammatry, right? And we're just a massive, you know, computational problem, but we we do that and now we can track like, you know, basically like, you know, everything going through, a specific region brain or in at some point, we're gonna be able to do the entire brain within about.
20:57
This is actually keep us from, is it still considered early? So it's purely external on the brain. Well so so the information so yeah, because if it's pure so we need to we need to do two things to release one is sense and one is transmitted. So we need to two-age version information.
21:14
So for research purposes that it has halfway there then we need to transmit the stuff back into the brain. That's that's the other half of it. What I'm saying with what I'm saying is that but there's all these so we have so when I'm working on is is new science for combining new forms of track photography, with foot, with technologies, like video grammatry to, to do the to figure out.
21:38
Basically, we're getting a lot of new brain data. Then what I want to do is take 12 DGX dash one supercomputers and video super computers. Each cost like 129 thousand dollars and we're going to take that data and see there's a lot of brainwave data that there's a lot you can do with the supercomputer right now that's not being done.
21:55
