The Neural Lace Podcast #4 Guest: Andre Watson (auto transcript needs fixing)

May 5, 2017

Original audio here https://youtu.be/RRN91RwiYiw 

00:06
Welcome to the Neural Ace Talks with guest Andre Watson post Michael Bloomberg edited by Adam Alonsi. I see myself mostly spending time between the world of engineering biological system, and materials and science material, science, and engineering has relates to making that own particles to deliver genes to different places in the body.
00:34
So when I spend my day to day, really building is my company like handle where we are using logins or things that stick to different markers and things like receptors to guide. These vectors for gene therapy to really specific locations of the body. And I assassinated have spent a lot of time on thinking about synapse physiology.
01:01
I was going to go to the guild for an urine engineering PhD, but I decided to come out here and work on this. So I really love pharmacology and for me understanding consciousness or at least a piece of it is incomplete. Unless we try to look at the molecular picture too.
01:22
Yeah, I agree. So be really fascinating to talk about maybe how that plays a role in the future of the human experience. And also how we're going to build machines, that capture various aspects of human and scholarships got industry. Got me on this training with was a book called on intelligence by Jeff Hawkins or Hawkins and he's he was never a scientist, he said of writing this to, and he was also the made all kinds of different qualifies handspring device then eventually.
02:04
That's really, you know, and then iPhone came along. Sort of, it's okay. So that the home went away, so, which I fucking did instead, was he started the neuroscience research and institute, he wrote about on intelligence. And he, he started this, this computer company called momentum has there. All I do is basically create a computer that's based on the name cortex.
02:34
And so this computer uses what they call hierarchical temporal memory and they say the accordance is a hierarchy and the top of that hierarchies found this. So higher potential memory means that well basically in your sort of describing the structure of a neural network because the deep learning network is specifically structure that hierarchy.
03:04
And so the lower levels of the hierarchy would just focus on the lines and edges, and a little bit and at a higher level, you turn the blinds edges into the computer recognize as a content because it's it's just something wrong, it's bad. And then at a higher level of the network you have the computer begins put together the concept of eyes or, or words or, you know, it's just it's just it's basically a map of the associations of the minds and edges that, but at a higher level it you computer.
03:42
So this is not I because that's what the neuron network represents with its weights problems. So so basically he was describing his book on intelligence. He was subscribing, the corner which was sort of like this. So the neural networks and existed, since since the 80s, a lot of, a lot of great designs for computers came from the 80s.
04:06
And but now that since 2012, we we had some new ideas at the top to make the in our networking people because you going to get about three years ago and now you can eight. Now, in some cases, there are now that works as a receipt I'm curiosity as astrologers evolve is the level of which will really be able to understand and or emulate the human experience.
04:38
And and that's something that would be really interesting to discuss with you. Because I've spent a lot of time, thinking about synapses and sort of how things build from a really bottom of level. Just, you know, molecular pharmacology, how different drugs and ligands and things in your brain. Buy into these different receptors in order to create all those different effects.
05:03
And something that I have learned through studying that is the amount of layers within even a single synapse of the gradients of state that can exist at any given point of time to represent any range of things that are not just a one or zero, or an on or off.
05:23
I feel like that is something that isn't talked about very often or frequently. And I like to at least, think about and sort of forecasts, you know, as we build these technologies. An EG can tell you some basic things and if you have a director in her face or some more advanced technology, you can learn a lot more.
05:44
And certainly, even with existing, FMRIs were able to recreate visual imagery that our brains were seeing based on the FMRI data on its own. And so, as a starting point, there's definitely a possibility for having some interfaces. The question is a lot of people also speak about these technologies, eventually being able to completely function as humans or transcend humans?
06:08
And while I believe that we will have different AIs that will do different things. I really wonder if we're going to see, humanity become obsolete, or kind of the core driver of all of the peripheral, artificial components, that become the future humanity. Sure. And I am a thought about that.
06:30
Because so I remember there was Steven Spielberg made this movie called AI artificial intelligence and in the movie, it was good. It was good. It was, it was, it was a vision of what the future might of, might return the future Definitely. We're taking out of you haven't seen it, but when one thing that in retrospect, the movie was fine, when I saw it in retrospect that there's, I do have one small one, right that they humans, made the distinction between Meccas and Jorge to say that you're a mechanical robot.
07:05
You're a mechanical person and I'm a real person. And so this is like a really interesting. What's interesting is you know you say well what's an organ origin? Organic it's wrong and back. It means made in a factory or something. Artificial nice. Okay, so the thing is, you know, and I heard people describe this this concept in other ways, you know, we're like if we're robots where, you know, like, you know, organic robots are, you know, maybe you know, we're kind of closer being trees and and, and this is like, we're not metal robots, you know, we could have a soil and so it's not possible for machines to have a soul because they don't have the same sort.
07:45
These are things that hurt people say. And I think that VR metal robots, and and so there won't. And I said, because no or mental metal, instruments are metal robots, because are because our nerve cells, for example, are filled with metal filled, with, with any outer, sack of the calcium ions and on the inside filled with potassium ions, you know the calcium ions are, you know, the positivity charge and it's important in the necessary, is the potassium products.
08:21
It's also positively charged, I guess are you if you're saying metal in a sense that is capable of conducting ions in the presence of a variable solution of electoral like concentrations, then, you know, we could read a fine metal for the purposes of this. So from, you know, strictly speaking out.
08:38
That's how the metal casting solution you know, not if they're in solution, not our translation. Okay. And well wait, hold on. Let's talk, let's take a table on the table of elements. There's actually will and yeah. So let's pull this up. I mean, yeah. I mean, they're definitely, you know, industry sounds, they are alkaline metals.
09:03
Yeah, going down from from lithium to sodium to potassium. Yes, the outline earth metals. I, I suppose that is a really interesting way of putting things because by moving around, all these positive charges through active energy. Spending processes were able to control not only the action, potentials, but sort of the, the R of.
09:28
Yeah, the machine was of our firing and magnetic field. Yeah. Yeah. At a really just fine, super level of Alicia physiological weirdness. That's why, you know, I like to say, I believe that consciousness is magnetic because our brains are manipulating a magnetic field. And so interesting. And that we are metal robots.
09:52
And once we solve creating robots, and factory, they'll they'll be no different from students. They'll just be and people will not say, oh, this is surprising. People will say oh of course it makes sense. Universe is a fractal and they'll be like, okay, no big deal. Then the interesting thing to consider is the the basis of the kind of consciousness that we have versus the kind of consciousness that a machine intelligence would have because we've entirely evolved even from the time of being single cellular organisms to feel the world around us in the form of receptors bunnies different molecules.
10:32
And you can think about the electrical part of our biology and our consciousness. But there's also at even the most baseline resolution a physical sensing one and we are built out of these exquisite natto sensors that have the ability to distinguish serotonin from dopamine and a range of thousands of different compounds from each other.
10:58
And this is actually, I would argue one of the core facets of our consciousness. That cannot be adequately modeled through electrophysiology. 11. Okay, we explain I want again. You said, why can't we model it? Well, we're starting from in position of biology by its baseline interacting with its environment to use, an example, of the sort of sensing that a biological self can have you have this family of cells surface markers known as integrands.
11:32
Integrating binds to collagen elastin, these different extracellular, matrix proteins that form the mesh of what comprises your skin and all of your tissues. And through binding to these service, markers is receptors. The receptors are actually mechanism as you pull on the strings so to speak, they engage signaling cascades that are so precise that they can upregulate themselves and produce more of that specific protein or more collagen and things like that.
12:01
As well as things to remodeled the matrix or break it apart and chop it up with these things known as nature's metalloproteins. That's just one. Example on describe that matrix. So you have an extracellular matrix of you know we think of cells and as having you know, we have you know 70 trillion cells in her body and those cells are not just floating around freely.
12:25
They're interacting through series of proteins, like sugar proteins, sugars lipids. And you name it that are all lashed together and a minced. All of that randomness that you perceive. If you boardage naturally things are variable to derive, various specific information where pulling on a single receptor that is bound to by an excess cellular.
12:52
Matrix protein, can trigger very specific signaling cases that cause remodeling of the entire system around it and this is not different with neurons. If you think about a neuron and the axon in the dendrite being last together, people always think of them. As just, there's a sending sign was an interesting city.
13:12
Have you ever wondered why a generic sticks to an axon? Yes, and that's that's the same thing actually. It's an extracellular matrix that holds them together and you have these different circles markers that latch the acts onto the gender, right physically. So you have, for example, this family of proteins known as Netrans that by into nursery and receptors and they're one of the major extracellular matrix components that hold together axons and nutrients.
13:43
Whether they're electrical properties and they want, you don't want to have like because you eat this napped down for the conditions, so whatever is connected to can. You can't have electricity running across that because it always would defeat the snapchat. So there might be properties. Must be inhibiting, electrical signals.
14:02
I think there's still a space there. I think it depends on which protein you're talking about. And I think for the purpose of thinking about how little potentials are propagated it is really hard to envision scale. I wish this is interacting because there are you know, 20,000 proteins and thousands of these proteins exist on the cellular surface and they don't need to be homogeneously tice.
14:31
Junctioned in order for them to be serving their functions, you can have a distribution of an, a lot of things that aren't going to negatively impact the way that cell functions. Okay? So I mean anything that we would say about that would be completely speculative. Yeah, I guess we're going with this.
14:47
Is that? Well some of those saying that. Well, the people who not people do, but they're the guy who's working on the blue brand. Yeah, he was saying that they created a model, a computer program to try to simulate where synapses where he, you know, the where they would connect where cells would connect and they said that it basically what they found out with, it was a computer model was able to, you know, they are basically did it randomly and it was it was like pretty much close to what I actually happens in the brain.
15:22
So they're basically the they're saying that basically in the beginning when people are born and there's synapses or first, you know, growing and connecting that is basically like random. And So what does that mean? Not well yeah I don't well what does it mean for it to be like the brain because it's one thing to have a small centers specifically stimulating.
15:47
Just how near. And there are some form their initial connections with each other. They were, it was basically a, it's a control of the experiment. And so, in reality, there's so many other factors. Yeah. I'll be tilting them. And and so yeah, you can't. When you have a model on the computer, it can't compare to the sorry of.
16:11
Yeah, a real brain. Well, one of the things there that I really wanted to talk about is the nature of kind of, we can call it. The the now brain versus the evolving brain. Yeah. Or if we want to say it, perhaps in terms of pharmacology, the ionic trophy, brain versus the metabolism brain.
16:36
So when you think of an action potential when you think about these metal ions flowing in and out of the cell and being pushed around to change the way the charges work that's ironic. Oh you're talking about the glucose mentality. Yeah, no, I'm talking about every neuron. Every receptor that generates a quote-unquote signal, you can have ion or voltage gated, you can have.
17:03
Basically voltage-gated channels for ions. Yeah, that can either response in or transmitter, or to some voltage changing on the cell surface. Sure, that's all quoted by definition. Okay, it's have a survey is everything else. And so, most serious phone interceptors, every dopamine receptor. If as you go through the thousands of receptors like, you know, 800 receptors that are G protein, coupled receptors.
17:34
They're actually the most common protein in your body. You have about 800 of them. So all joking receptors all but one service 200 receptor, RG protein, couples receptors. They have all these different subclasses. The end of itself is a ton of calculation chemical calculator. Exactly. And so it is like a chemical computer.
17:54
Yeah, versus the micro magnetic energy. Yeah, so think about this right is all the chemicals are doing both at the same time, not all of them are now. You know, a lot of them aren't doing electrical things directly. Some of them are changing the way that receptors. Well, we're saying as an applicant, as a whole, they would be affecting me, the, the inner traffic brain.
18:13
Yeah. Yes. And the interesting part is that if I could capture a perfect snapshot of your brain over 30 seconds of every neuron, every astrocyte firing I would learn a lot about you and I could see that you're having these changes occur in your brain and sure, but that exactly probably never happened twice.
18:38
Exactly. So how do you model someone having more or less testosterone or being on LSD? Or not, just never happy in your neural network, if you only capture the iron or show big parts, how do you predict how use frame will change? Well I mean, okay, so I mean you know I think okay so like I guess in terms of you know, look at this energy diffusion right?
19:11
You're basically enough to tell me more so they blast a radio signal at the watering and and specific frequency and it causes the because the water molecules to release a to release energy which is as a specific frequency of a camera waiting on the other side. So the mat, so the magnet for big giant magnet where it does is, that's, that's, it's getting your molecules aligned, and then they hit it with a radio frequency and when the magnet stops and then the might be that long.
19:54
But anyway, so so you got to just grab it in pink correctly, but what is the? So the magnetic the magnet gets your, your waves aligned and so they blast them pretty sure the last of the radio signal and but they have to stop them out, of course they last with the radio signal which and then the result is, you're admit like lambda waves or something.
20:14
From all the particles that all the water particles of our line. So the water now has to travel. It can't travel. It's once it's released by the magnet, it has to travel along the axonal fibers. You know? I mean it can't, it can't travel freely like it would if it was just the emotion, right?
20:32
And so because it's admitting that specific frequency while it's traveling on a specific line and your caching it from specific angle. You're like you're the camera that does to your next capture and account is doing a why capture and account is doing a z capture at least three and then you can do tensor calculus on and figure out the position and direction of those water molecules to become your tensors or resolution of data, you get from them.
21:04
So with these, the standard MRI our DJI image, I believe is lot of size. You can think of a lot more, so it's really not that detailed. But here is this, it is basically the really helpful. Yes, so the really colorful light brains cans. I'm just gonna just oh, it's MRI base.
21:36
I see, I didn't I didn't follow that is using the MRI. Yes. Okay, as it's just like a two. So this is how you this is, how you kind of, keep track of the tracks. Yeah, right, right. Yeah. There's plenty. I've seen a lot of these. So, my sister's new to if you did like 3,000.
21:53
So you see the only three photos and just getting the basic geometry. I think if you did 3,000 photos, sort of like using like a light field type of camera, you know, like the new electro rig where they, they have, like, 91 cameras, all bringing the same direction if you did that kind of UTI.
22:10
And then so you're kind of like trying to figure out the light field of gray knowledge where those not only like where the watermark is are and which direction they're traveling. But also you know you're figure out the direction of the of the frequencies that are traveling towards the camera, you know, that's in this life more than.
22:33
So you could create like hologram that has potentially a higher resolution. If you're using the bottom or images and you can have these a technology light video camera. She was like photogrammetry on anything so if you so that's not that's the proposal for a new kind of DTI. DTI is that limited to let people confuse it.
22:54
I mean, comment below and actually but they're just diffusion concept is MRI. But but I mean what I mean is that overly really is, it's cancer calculus, it's tracked and you could apply that concept to other types of sensors, whether they're inside with their their private insights. So people put sensors inside, you know, like these like these doctors and you could if you have you know, at least three of them and you could you could calculate.
23:25
I mean you could calculate the the oh whatever you could calculate, you can do some something like tensor confidence on it, you know, just got the map all the ions within a specific field that you decide to focus on with your sensors, which you could also do something like this with EEG or energy.
23:48
Just do this with sensors that are just sort of pointed at your, at your time. Is from the notes, just point them straight up the native account. Yeah or you know shoot the sensor happening. Now, as far as you can get it without, you know, breaking something.
24:13
Expertise. We're drinking yogurt every month sponsored by Hawaiian King.
24:23
There was one thought that I had about, you know, so you know, on the phone, we're talking about this synapse and you're talking about how astrocytes have all these interesting. This is part of what you said. A lot of these interesting properties in terms of their networking and that publication and how it's.
24:49
So basically there's those whole like, people think of, because people think of, you know, in people and computer computational neuroscience think that the brain is all about the neurons. There's this. You mentioned that this is a, there's an eye on, I trophic, and I want a tropic brand and a metabolism.
25:12
It's happened. There's in a sense, you can also see a neural net and then there's a glium and that these two nets are interfacing and yeah, and there is so much complexity there. Both in terms of how the neurons and the astra science and the microglia interplay with each other and mitochondria taught another mitochondria.
25:37
I mean maybe there's a math mitochondria to I don't know. So that was don't be interesting. I mean I'm sure they're connected via there are mitochondrial localization signals like proteins sequences that directly go to my country. Yeah but I mean I'm sure microtubules connect so mitochondria as well but I don't know what the intracontrol looks like.
26:01
I other than this sort of network of the electron transport chain but we're digressing. Well sure. Well okay, so no. So I mean really. So this is podcast is about normally and there's so many different potential ways to interface with the networks of the brain. It doesn't have to be an iron for big interface you can potentially also do a chemical increase.
26:26
You know metabolic interface it's gonna be harder harder. Sure. And I think that you know, but there's something special about how the the metabolism here face is influencing I honor from these. I think that is everything in terms of how we dynamically change throughout time, if you imagine kind of the picture of the neural tract that you mentioned through the data of the FMRI.
27:02
Yeah. I was ETA GTI, right? Yeah, it takes some time, right? So if you look at those tracks, how do you and once you need to determine in order to have a snapshot of the person's consciousness in a way that captures the subjectively experience to. Okay. So this goes back into so let's say that we're never okay, let's see what never actually the same right?
27:31
For the same reason, as you're never going to capture and that the universe has one direction, spreading it. We're going to repeat it because introduce time, right? And so you never. So, it's like, but here's the thing, we're able to identify objects in this possible world. Like I know that like I'm holding right now, headphones my hand and I recognize that their headphones, but I've never seen headphones from exactly this angle.
28:04
Exactly. This way that keeps that in exactly this room. Exactly. This lighting is attacking this, you know, the time, it's all brand new. That doesn't mean we can't identify stuff, so it's just like that's why using your own networks to decode brain activities, going to work because we can identify the pattern of broccoli in our real world.
28:28
And if we were able to look at brainwares long enough, if we had the senses to understand bring them strong enough, and we could identify broccoli in our brainwaves in ordering broccoli. What I mean is that the idea is that broccoli? We went to that. We learned to know that taste of broccoli because well let's look at.
28:50
How does a I mean a good analogy is to look at. How does this car recognize if it can move forward or not? So you dive into this topic and it's it's it's you know how neural networks work is useful to talk about because then you can start to have ideas of how our brains are working.
29:10
So if you say well in our own network is recognizing that there's a car in front of its path, that's recognizing the sound because well, how is it recognizing that we say? Well the there's cameras that have pointed out car. That's driving First, maybe that's necessary, There's cameras pointing at the train that's in the path.
29:35
Okay? And the cameras are breaking the video down in the line already percentage. The camera is breaking down the video into pixels and frames and pixels. And the no network is putting together. All the build different on at the lowest level is putting together the his pain together. You know, whether there's a line or an edge or a color.
29:58
I need a higher level, it's no recognizing what. This is a long line. But this is a, this is and then at a higher level of this is okay. Leaf. Yeah. And another part of the network is saying this is another leave. Another part saying is an elite and there's another person, this is a branch.
30:14
Yeah, and a high level. It's said this is a, it says, either this can be a flower or this could see a tree and a higher level. This is definitely the tree. Yeah. And so that I did is that we set our minds basically doing the same thing. Yeah you had your eye has tons of receptors in it right there, tons of sensors, light sensors blue, that sensors.
30:35
And and this and got these photons are bouncing off. You're a retina and there, they're calling proteins to flip and as approaching that the ionic charges displays eventually. And then eventually there's this, you know, you have a separation of positive negative charges and there's an action potential and all these neurotransmitters get released throughout the network of the brain and people of people will see what signals is the oh I think there's a signal traveling from the island officer to the founder to and then back to the opposite, prior roads and the rest of it, the brain activity.
31:13
And we're like, well we see this and you know and what like you know, and the question is like well you know, what is a brain with? Because we see these signals in their being triggers. And what it, what is a brain like and very just like seems to be triggered by these incoming signals somehow.
31:34
You have the incoming, something that you see the idea is going to be a popularized, is that photons are bouncing off of that and they're bouncing off your eye, and then they're triggering brainwaves and these right ways. They have characteristics that in time, you know, play frequency patterns, and they characteristics and in space, right?
32:00
And you bring as a network is processing brainwashed, there's facial interval packets and this is the kind of information we see moving all around and I have a tropic level. And so, the basic idea is I'm thinking that, you know, if a bottle, it's just beginning, translated into a brain wave and the computer's watching the brainwaves, well, the computers watching the bottle.
32:24
So it's interesting, the brain is in the bottle. The same time, it's saying it's saying this is this and this is something like these two things are together. This brainwave represents this bottle, this frame was represents that glass the spring we have represents this table and even know we never gonna have the same brain patterns twice.
32:44
You still have the patterns check out the pattern. Yeah, well I think what neural networks are able to do in terms of pattern matching and the self-driving, even if you look at that video of like, what a tesla is seeing when it is processing the environment around it, it's fascinating.
33:02
There is some really advanced. Here's where it gets weird. Okay. So let's see. Cashier the pattern of this of the of a glass. Now, at first, you can say, okay. Well now that I know what the pattern of glass is that I could just, you know, build that model appear, press the button and Peter sends that pattern directly to the brain.
33:22
But the weird thing if you know that there's no glass there and it's Peter's trying to send you a glass, and the glass is inner caring with whatever's in your brain right now. How do you resolve that, right? Don't, you must have to figure out like and where's the glass gonna be positioned is gonna be on the table?
33:38
Or is it gonna be on the air? Or is gonna look like it's falling off? Will it cause you to have some sort of unintended food is nation? Yeah, you know, will you will it cause your reality to crash like a programmer. It's all sorts of like where things about I think I really wonder about.
33:58
Is how do you teach an AI contacts for the material world, the scale of things and the way that they interact with each other, that to humans is intuitive. But to machines, that don't have the ability to touch and feel an idea is an understand, those different things and always different contexts was really the semantical brilliance that humans have despite the fact that we're really really slow at other things in the computers are good at, I really wonder what that is going to look like.
34:35
I mean, I have to say that we massive parallelism can make up for chemically in terms of yet. Chemicals were slower, but if you have a massive parallel capabilities, exactly. You can make up for that difference. I think that, you know, people is often repeated, that computers are far faster than human beings.
34:57
Only linear things, and that's a good point. And we I think at that, you know, I actually lost my favorite decision. We're so the human brain, for example, has amazing metabolism, right? If you take a gluteal slide of human brain and put it into a mouse, its memory won't at least suggest and we have so we're getting it.
35:33
There are network efficiencies that our brains have because we're like robots that are balloons with years old, right? And they've evolved, couple of things We started with nanosensors on single cells and we've grown into fully electrically conductive organisms that still have that in them but are pretty weird. Yes.
35:54
So our network and not only that our brains run like the power something like a nine-boat battery. Is that right? I need to check the voltage and/or the wattage. But I think it was around a lightbulb in terms of the wattage. Yeah. So it's like imagine that you have a computer that has means the connections and it runs on the same powers, same amount of power supply.
36:15
That's not, that's, that's a networking efficiency that is not exist on the internet, not even close. Well, that's what's so fascinating about it. Is that through the chemical soup and being able to sense the finest, gradient of change, and that chemical suit, we're able to form such different experiences from a moment to moment because even every single one of our hundred trillions synapses can possess so many states.
36:42
Yeah, that is a functional equivalent of I mean I think people like to abstract the neuron away. Yeah. When they're thinking about neural networks and I yeah, is that a brand for a second? Because that ions are particles, right? So now, we have a massively parallel particle, based computer, that sounds a lot like a quantum computer, right?
37:11
Imagined is like, with a massive amount of connections, you know. We're not even close to building something like so people are like, oh man, computers are so much faster. And here, another reason other things to do, who's had some brain injury. Could have been hit by a cars for another way, but they can calculate numbers by seeing them and they see numbers.
37:36
So they're doing linear attacks. I just got topological calculation abilities, right? Yeah. So I'm saying is that we're right? So we're running programs that are dominating over other programs if we inhibited whatever, I mean program was we might discover that we can do calculations far faster than a linear computer.
37:53
Yeah. I think our brains just aren't built on needing to do those sort of things because we're so based on interactivity with our environment. Yeah. But if you had to interact linearly at in some way you could, I mean, look at look at even the the children who used the autocases.
38:10
Yeah. And they can do these in same calculations because they've developed a different tactile ends for how to interact with math. Yeah, yeah. And I think it's so helpful to and I think a student should be learning tensor calculus before. They learn algebra before they learn calculus, because when you combine geometry, which is very visual with algebra, at the same time, you you're attacking your, I think you're giving your own brand, you're giving the immigrant advantage because now we can understand math with multiple and multiple ways like how to like, because the brain is very much on multimodal system.
38:47
We the having to eyes and two, and two nostrils. In two years allows for a kind of sensory confirmation and two receptors clusters together, hundreds and millions of times on the single synapse, yes. With the two being not only far more unique but also forming their own unique. Signaling cascade.
39:12
Yeah, versus the two. Is the saying in isolation? And yeah, and there's our very most basic signaling units of this heteroidimer or header timer of two or three receptors cluster together, and sensing their neurochemical environment and engaging cascades. They're so specific that they can influence that very receptor or gene expression as of range of things that relates to that thing, just like the information flow has evolved.
39:47
So well that molecular sensing on the cell surface can directly change. The way that different genes are red to influence the environment in the way that best favors survival and evolution and proliferation of that organism and that that sort of that is incredible. Like if you really think you got it, that is completely mind-blowing.
40:11
Yeah. Yeah. So there's no reason in principle why we probably can't vastly defeat. The information comprised, these other computers, just by changing, we just might read a lot of help as the things that they just naturally are better at well. And it's a, let's say that we can figure out how to communicate.
40:32
We'll say, we can figure out the communication protocol of the brain. And, you know, is you so, you can basically have a web browser terminal that we can access our thoughts within. We can also like, you know, basically say okay, well I want to run. I want to turn off a visual program and I want to run a math program instead and then we start doing some amazing calculations here today.
41:01
Just because we told the band we don't want to go over here. Can we? Please not have ads? Can we pause to discuss that for a moment? You actually know. I mean, oh, you want to talk about? Yeah. Okay. I mean, I feel like we should just mention this.
41:18
Sure. You know, do you want if you want advertisements on your retina? Where do you draw the line? And yes that's what it's an advertisement on the biological, you know. And I mean there's you know humans are there. You know there's mating at mating is the shortest pads. We just always signals between people and that's and that's a sort of that's the sort of advertised, right?
41:48
If we got rid of like, what would it mean to like say? Okay there's no ads or something. I guess it would be like to to want to inhibit ads is in a sense, kind of like a evolutionary impulse. It's like when I imagine a male gorilla wants to inhibit the ads of other nail gorillas right it's so annoying those ads or so right.
42:11
Have you seen the black mirror episodes? Spoiler alert like your ears. It you care about seeing black mirror episodes and you haven't seen you spoil this point. We'll tell it. We'll tell you. When we have a friend with you seem the black bear episode and they'll just help you on the shoulder.
42:31
I don't remember specifically in the number but there is this one episode where there is a sort of utopia in the usual dystopian way of black mirror, okay? And in this environment, there are these credits that you earn from running on a treadmill. You can use to buy food, drinks, toothpaste, and paint and not have ads.
42:53
Go off the ads, completely surround you. When you are in your your sleep audio room, the entire walls are of this AR interface and you have the sound directly going to your ears. And if you don't have enough credits, you have to watch the ads. If you look away or plug your ears.
43:17
See how it will tell you bicycle or something. Yeah, if you look away or plug your ears, they'll keep you making warning noises until you open them. Yeah. And finish watching. Exactly. Yeah, that's free. So if you're probably kids maintain control of Congress so we have these sort of technologies that very well be our future.
43:43
I being so seashells. But you want to maybe a little bit too. I wish her. Of course to do something and you want to maintain username which you're not the choice to, to find your reality if you want.
44:03
Yeah. So I mean, imagine I imagine that, you know, it's it's, you know, in terms of how the universe is structured. I mean, I just, I might have my hypothesis is that you're gonna have like a United States of America science, and then you're gonna have within North Korea.
44:20
Since we're in North, in what I'm just saying. Like and in order in terms of neural, in terms of universes created by people, like you're gonna have a universe, that's like, you know, living in Germany in in the year 2018, or you're gonna have a, an early universe and someone creates that's like living in in the year 1600, and in Rome or or you know, like where there's like Muslims and Christians, and all sorts of people are afraid to, they're afraid that that God can hear their thoughts or they're afraid that the governor of their state, you know, want to give here in a total turning of society.
45:30
So I would just have to say that. It seems like the universe is like instead of deciding between one possibility where another, it's like creating both at the same time. So you end up, you know, where you know, the like it seems like in a long enough timeline. What could happen is inevitable you.
45:54
Yeah so that's it's kind of you know this I'm like this is, you know, people will we're gonna create in our lives. We're gonna create artificial brands and people won't care because they'll be like, oh yeah, well it was inevitable, you know? And English is a fact, it's just and there's this his office going out, but it's like the other side of the planet and I wish I could go do it, but it's all about how the desired is computer, it's in the mental conference and you know, with Androids are there hugely important to?
46:35
It's like the ice off, it said, it's kind of computer. I don't know what kind of like it's kind of like maybe official podcast in the web people take Androids and then go to computation and you know, one thing, I guess I closing out for this podcast because talk about those, a GPU conference coming up in the Nvidia GT conference or GTI conference and some plan together because there's this, there's many, many good talks on top of artificial intelligence.
47:08
The latest innovations that people are discovering. And one of those is really interesting because they're discovering that because if you want AI tools, sort of rep, take some data and recreate, you know, a 3D structure on that. It's actually really hard problem but when they were they found out was that if you give a small basic 3D model's first, then your your you know, they're finding out that it's able to recreate the the through the 3D model from the sensor.
47:42
So it's like giving a child a toy to play with your sort of taking cash onto the concepts that more fundamental to humans. Existence and so they're giving this area three models and it's more able to handle this. So that idea there that I was, you know, that could have to do with sensory confirmation, you know, where if you have, if you have two eyes, you know, to say, crocodiles to either, look into different directions, standing up the point in these directions.
48:11
And so you have the crocodiles, let's face the deep learning program and, you know, take a million network just like we talked about earlier and it's, and one eyes trying to figure out the geometry of the world around. So we can notice and some animal passing, it wants to eat and otherwise doing the same thing.
48:29
And that's think about how a nerve has like two ends. Right? And, you know, it's almost like a it's almost like a like a battery, like northern a south, right? And so the crocodile is getting each eye has you know millions of sensors in it like sensors and it's going to neural network and it's creating like all this all these brainways which are the it's sort of like it's sort of like a brainwave a four-dimensional pattern.
48:59
It's like a electromagnetic cancer field moving with all these different parts moving throughout this throughout this system. And at some point the in the right ID and and where they meet, they're confirming each other's model. And the confirmation of each eye is getting is, is, is magnifying disability. So it's an argument for why two eyes have an evolutionary advantage is to short of a sensory conversation.
49:25
The first week of man, I think seventh it is about, they're going to be talking about that and it's a brick. It's very interesting that would make a case for. We could potentially build how we potentially might feel better AI by, you know, making it more to model like and I think it needs to be at the very baseline level.
49:47
The more we can mimic the architecture of how a single synapse functions, the closer will probably get to capturing the breath and the richness of the human experience.
